Not that in colour it was like thy hayre
For arme-letts of that thou mayst let me weare.
Nor that thy hand it often embrac'd and kist
For so it had that good which oft I mist.
Nor for that silly old moralitie
That as those linkes are tyed our loues should be,
Mourn I that I thy seauen-fold chaine haue lost;
Nor for the lucks sake, but the bitter cost.
Oh shall twelue righteous Angells, which as yet
No leauen of vile soder did admitt?
Nor yet by any taint haue strayd or gone
From the first state of there Creation?
Angells which heauen commanded to prouide
All thinges to me and be my faythfull guide.
To gaine new frends t'appease greate enemies
To comforte my soule when I lye or rise.
Shall these twelue innocents, by thy seuere
Sentence (dread iudge) my sinnes greate burthen beare?
Shall they be damnd'? and in the fornace throwne
And punisht for offences not there owne?
They saue not me, they do not ease my paynes
When in that hell th'are burnt and tyed in chaines.
Were they but Crownes of France I cared not
For most of them there naturall cuntry rott
I thinke possesseth, they come heare to vs
So leane, so* pale, so lame, so ruinouse,
And howsoere French Kinges most Christian be
There Crownes are circumcized most Iewishly.
Or were they Spanish stamps still trauailinge
That are become as Catholicke as there Kinge
Those >>%Yvnul%Z<< vnlickt beare-whelpes, vnfild' Pistoletts
That more then Cannon-shott auailes or letts.
Which negligently left vnrounded looke
Like many angled figures in the booke
Of some greate Coniurer; who would enforce
Nature, as these do iustice from hir course.
Which (as the soule quickneth head, feet, and harte,
As streames like vaines run through th'earths euery part)
Visite all Cuntries, and haue slilie made
Gorgeousse France ragged, ruind and decayd
Scotland, which knew no state proud in one day,
And mangled seauenteene-headed Belgia.
Or were it such gold as that where withall
Almightie Chymicks from each minerall
Haueinge by subtile fire a soule out puld
Are durtilie and desperately guld.
I would not spitt to quench the fire they were in [f.19r
For they are guiltie of much heynouse sin.
But shall my harmelesse Angells perish? shall
Shall I loose my guarde, my ease my foode, my All?
Much hope which they should nourish wilbe dead
Much of my able youth and lusty head,
Will vanish; if thou loue lett them alone
For thou wilt loue me lesse when they are gone.
Oh be content that some lowd-squeakinge Crier
Well pleasd with one leane-thrid bare-groate for hire
May like a Diuell rore through euery street
And gall the finders conscience, if he meet.
Oh let me creepe to some dread Coniurer
Which with fantastique scheames fullfills much paper
Which hath diuided heauen in tenements
And with whoores, theeues, and murderers stuffd' his rents,
So full that though he passe them all in sinne
He leaues him selfe no rome to enter in.
And if when all this art and time is spent
He say 'twill nee're be found, oh be content
Receiue the doome from him vngrudgingly
Because he is the mouth of destinie.
Thou sayst alasse the gold doth still remaine
Though it be changd and put into a chaine.
So in those first falne angell resteth still
Wisdome and knowledge, but 'tis turnd to ill.
As these should do good workes and should prouide
Necessities, but now must nurse thy pride.
And they are still bad Angells. mine are none
For forme giues beinge, and there forme is gone.
Pitty these Angells yet, there dignities
Past vertues, powers, and principalities,
But thou art resolute, thy will be done
Yet with such anguish as hir only sonne
The mother in the hungry graue doth lay
Vnto the fire these Martyrs I betray.
Good soules! for yo%5w%6 giue life to euery thinge
Good Angells! for good messuages yo%5w%6 bringe.
Destind' you might haue beene to such a one
As would haue loud' and worshipd' yo%5w%6 alone.
One which would suffer hunger, nakednesse
Yea death ere he would make yo%5w%6 nunberlesse.
But I am guiltie of your sad decay
May your few fellowes longer with me stay.
But oh thou wretched finder whom I hate
So much as I almost pittie thy state.
Gold beinge the heauiest mettall amongst all [f.19v]
May my most heauy curse vpon thee fall.
Heere fettred, manacled, and hangd, in chaynes
First mayst thou be then chaynd to hellish paines.
Or be with forraigne gold bribd' to betray
Thy cuntry, and faile both of it and thy pay.
May the next thinge thou stoopst to reach containe
Poyson, whose nimble fume rott thy moyst braine.
Or libells or some interdicted thinge
Which negligently kept thy ruine bringe.
Lust bred diseases rott and dwell with thee.
Itchy desire and no habilitie.
May all the hurt which euer gold hath wrought
All mischeifes, which all diuells euer thought
Want after plentie, poore and gowtie age
The plauges of trauailers loue and marriage
Afflict thee, and at thy lifes latest moment
May thy swolne sinnes themselues to thee present.
But I forgiue. Repent then honest man!
Gold is restoratiue, restore it then.
Or if with it thou be'st loath to depart
Because 'tis cordiall would 't were at thy hart.
%Xfinis Eleg: i. Ioh: Donne.
%1second SS flush to right; beginning with line 5, every fifth 
           line through line 90 is numbered in scribal hand%2 Ioh: Donne. 
