 X Not that in colour it was like thy haire,
 ffor armelets of that thou maist let me weare:
 ffor that thy hands it oft embracd, & kist,
 ffor soe it heid that which ought I mist: [CW:om]
 Not for that silly old morality, [Fv]
 That as these linkes were tyde, our loues should bee:
 Mourne I, that I thy seuen fold chaine haue lost;
 Not for the lucke sake, but the bitter cost.
 O shall 12 righteous angells, which as yet
 No leauen of the vild siluer did admitt;
 Nor yet by any fault haue strayd, or gone
 ffrom the first state of their creation:
 Angells which heauen commaunded to prouide
 All things to me, and be my faithfull guide
 To gaine new freinds, to appease greate enemies,
 To cum fort my soule, when as I ly, or rise:
 Shall these 12 innocents by thy seuere
 Sentence (dread Iudge) my sins greate burthen beare?
 Shall they be damd, and in the furnace throwne?
 And punisht for offences not their owne?
 They saue not me, they doe not ease my paines,
 When in the hell th'are burnt, and tyd in chaines.
 Were they but crownes of Fraunce I card not,
 ffor most of these their naturall cuntries rot
 I thinke possesseth, they come to vs
 Soe pale, soe lame, soe leane, soe ruinous;
 And howsoere French Kings most Christain bee,
 Their crownes are circumsizd most diuilsely.
 Or were they spanish stamps still traveling,
 That are become as Cathlike as their King.
 These vnlikd beare whelps, vnfild Pistolets,
 That more then cannon shot availes, or lets.
 Which negligently left vnrounded, looke
 Lyke many angled figures in the booke
 Off some greate Coniurer, that would enforce
 Nature, as these doe iustice, from her course.
 Which as the soule quickens, head, and hearte,
 As streames lyke vaines run through th'earths empty %V(part.
 Visit all countries, and haue slily made
 Gorgeous Fraunce ruind, ragd, and decayd.
 Scotland whcih knew noe state proud in one day:
 And mangled seuenteene headed Belgia.
 Or were it such gold as that where with all
 Allmighty Chimicks from each minerall,
 Hauing by subtile fire a soule exhalld,
 Are durtily, and desperately glad:
 I would not spit to quench the fire th'are in,
 ffor they are giulty of much hainous sin. [CW:om]
 But shall my harmelesse angells perish? shall [8r]
 I loose my guard, my ease, my foode, my all
 Much hope which they, should nourish will be dead,
 Much of my able youth, and lusty head
 Will vanish, if thou loue let them alone;
 ffor thou wilt loue me lesse when they are gone,
 And be content, that some lowd squeaking cryer, 
 Well pleasd with one leane thread bare groate for hyer,
 May like a diuill roare through euery streete,         
 And gall the finders conscience if he mellte->>meate<.
 Or let me creepe to some dread coniurer,                
 That with fantasticke sceanes fills full much paper,
 Which hath diuided heauen in tenements,
 And with whores, theeues, and murtherers stuft his rents
 Soe full, that though hee passe them all in sin,
 He leaues himselfe noe roome to enter in,
 But if when all his art, and time is spent,
 Heele say twill neere be found, yet be content,
 Receiue from him that roome vngrdgingly,
 By cause he is the mouth of destinie.|  Pa*s.
 Thou sayst alas the gold doth still remaine
 Though it be changd, & put in to a chaine:
 Soe in the first fallen angells resteth still
 Wisedome, and knowledge; but tis turnd to ill:
 As these should doe good works, & should prouide
 Necessities, but now must nurse thy pride:
 And they are still bad a%Mgell, mine are none,
 ffor forme giues being & their forme is gone.
 Pitty these angells, yet thier dignities
 Passe virtues powers and Principalities:
 But thou art resolute, thy will be done
 Yet with such anguish, as her onely sonne
 The mother in the hungry graue doth lay:
 And to the fier these martirs I betray: [CW:om]
 Good soules, for you giue life to euerie thing, [5v]
 Good Angells, for good messages you bring.
 Destind you might haue beene to such a one
 That would haue loud, and worshipt you alone:
 One that would suffer hunger, nakednesse
 Yea death, ere he would make your number lesse:
 But I am guilty of your sad decay;
 May your few fellowes longer with me stay;
 But o thou wretched finder, whome I hate,
 Soe that I almost pitty thy estate:
 Gold being the heauiest mettall amongst all,
 May my most heauy curse vpon thee fall:
 Here fettered manacled, and hangd in chaines
 ffirst maist thou be, then chaind to hellish paines.
 Or be with forraine gold bribd to betray
 Thy Cuntry, and faile of it, and thy prey.
 May the next thing thou stoopes to reach containe
 Poison, whose nimble fume rotte thy moist braine
 Or libells, or some interdicted thing
 Being negligently kept thy ruine bring.
 Lust bred diseases rot thee, and dwell with thee
 Itching desire, and no ability.
 May all the euills that gold euer wrought,
 All mischeifs, that all Deuils euer thought,
 Want after plenty, poore and gouty age,
 The plagues of trauellers, loue, marriage,
 Afflict thee, & thy luies last moment
 May thy swolne sinues themselues to thee present.
 But I forgiue, repent thee honest man,
 Gold is restoratiue, restore it than:
 But if from it thou beest loath to depart,
 By cause tis cordiall would twere at thy heart.|
 [om] 
