Not, that in Coullor, it was like thy hayre
(for armelets of that, thou maist let me weare)
Nor that thy hand it ofte imbract and kist
(for soe it had that good, that ofte I miste)
Nor for that Silly old moralitye
That as those linckes are tide our hartes should be
Mourne I, that I this seauen folde chayne haue lost
Nor for the lucke sake but the bitter Cost
Oh, shall twelue righteous Angells, which as yet
No leauen of vile Solder did admitt
Nor yet by any tainte haue strayde, or gone
From the first state, of their Creation
Angells, which heauen commanded to prouide
All things for me, and be my faithfull guide
To gaine new frinds 't appease greate enemyes
To comfort my Soule, when I lie, or rise
Shall these twelue innocents by thy seuere
Sentence (Dread Judge) my Sins great burthen beare?
Shall they be burn't and in the fornace throwne
And punisht for offences not theire owne?
They Saue not me they doe not ease my paines
When in that hell th'are burn't and tyde in Chaynes.
Were they but Crownes of France, I cared not
For most of them theire naturall Country rott
(I thincke) possesseth. they come here to us
So leane so pale, so lame so ruinous
And howsoere French kings most Christian bee
Theire Crownes are circumsisd most Jewishlie.
Or were they Spanish stamps, still trauellinge
That are become as Catholike as theire Kinge [f.95r
Those vnlickt Beare=whelps vnfilde pistolets
That more then Canon shot auaile or letts
Which negligently lefte vnrounded, looke
Like many angled figures, in the booke
Of Some great Coniuror which would in force
Nature, as these doe Justice, from hir Course
Which as the Soule quickens head, feete, & hart
As streames, like veynes, run throughe th'earths euery pt.
Visit all Countryes, and haue Slylie made
Gorgeous France ragged, ruind, & decayde
Scotland, which knew no state, proude in one day
And mangled Seauenteene=headed Belgia.
Or were it such golde, as that, wherewithall
Allmighty Chymicks from each Minerall
Hauinge by Subtile fire a Soule outpuld
Are durtily and desperately guld
I would not Spitt to quench the fire they were in
For they are guilty of much heynous Sin
But shall my harmeles Angells perish? shall
I lose my Guarde, my foode, my ease, my All?
Much hope which they should nourish wilbe dead
Much of my able youthe, and lusty=head
Will vanish, if thou loue let them alone
For thou wilt loue me lesse when they are gone
Oh; be content that some lowde squeakinge Cryar
Well pleasd with one leane, thread bare Groate for hyre
May like a Diuell roare throughe euery streete
And gale the finders Conscience if they meete
Or let me creepe to some Dread Coniuror
Which with fantastique Scheames fills much paper [f.95v
Which hath deuided heauen in tenements
And with whores theeues & murderers stuft hir rents
So full, that thoughe he passe them all in sin
He leaues him selfe no roome to enter in.
And if when all his art and time is spent
He say, twill ne're be founde, oh be content
Receiue the dome from him vngrudgingly
Because he is the mouth of Destiny
Thou sayest, alas, the golde doth still remaine
Though it be changd and put into a Chayne:
So in those first fallen Angells resteth still
Wisedome and knowledge but tis turnd to ill
As these should doe good works and should prouide
Necessityes, but now must nurse thy pride:
And they are still bad angells, mine are none
For forme giues beinge, and their forme is gone
Pitty these Angells yet, theire dignityes
Passe Virtues powres, and principallities
But thou art resolute, thy will be done
Yet with Such anguish as hir only Sonne
The mother in the hungry Graue doth lay
Vnto the fire these Martyrs I betray.
Good Soules; for you giue life to euery thinge
Good Angells for good messages you bringe
Destind you might haue bin to such an one
As would haue loud and worshipt you alone
One which would suffer hunger, nakednes
Yea Death, ere he would make your number lesse
But I am guilty of your sad decay.
May your few fellowes longer with me stay [f.96r
But thou oh wretched finder, whome I hate
So much, as I shall most pitty thy state
Gold being the heauiest mettall amonge all
May my most heauy Curse vpon thee fall.
Here fetterd, manacled, and hangd in Cheynes
First mayst thou bee, then chaynd in hellish paines
Or be with foraine Golde bribd to betray
Thy Country, and faile both of that, and thy pay.
May the next thinge thou stoop'st to reach, containe
Poyson whose nimble fume rott thy moist braine
Or Libell or some interdicted thinge
Which negligently kept, thy ruine bringe
Lust=bred diseases rott thee, and dwell with thee,
Itchy desire, and no ability
May all the hurt, which euer Golde hath wrought
May all mischiefes, which all Diuells ere thought
Want, after plenty, poore and gowty age
The plagues of trauellers, loue, and Marriage
Afflict thee; at thy liues latest moment
May thy swolne sins themselues to thee present
But I forguie; repent then honest man
Gold is Restoratiue, restore it than
Or if with it thou beest loath to depart,
Because tis Cordiall, would t'were at thy hart.
J. / Finis / [two grape clusters]
%1no ind; SS could be monogram for JD--all 3 ll. of SS centered; 
