N%+Ot that in colour it was like thy hair,
Armelets of that thou maist still let me wear:
Nor that thy hand it oft embrac'd and kist,
For so it had that good, which oft I mist:
Nor for that silly old morality,
That as these links were knit, our loves should be:
Mourn I, that I thy sevenfold chain have lost:
Nor for the luck-sake; but the bitter cost.
O, shall twelve righteous Angels, which as yet
No leaven of vile soder did admit:
Nor yet by any way have straid or gone
From the first state of their Creation:
Angels, which heaven commanded to provide
All things to me, and be my faithful guide:
To gain new friends, t'appease old enemies:
To comfort my soul, when I lie or rise.
Shall these twelve innocents, by thy severe
Sentence (dread Judge) my sins great burden bear?
Shall they be damn'd, and in the furnace thrown,
And punisht for offences not their own?
They save not me, they do not ease my pains,
When in that hell they'are burnt and ty'd in chains:
Were they but Crowns of France, I cared not,
For, most of them, their natural Country rot
I think possesseth, they come here to us,
So pale, so lame, so lean, so ruinous;
And howsoe'r French Kings most Christian be,
Their Crowns are circumcis'd most Jewishly;
Or were they Spanish Stamps still travelling,
That are become as Catholique as their King, [CW:Those]
Those unlickt bear-whelps, unfil'd pistolets [p.82]
That (more then Cannon shot) availes or lets;
Which negligently left unrounded, look
Like many angled figures in the book
Of some dread Conjurer that would enforce
Nature, as these do justice from her course.
Which, as the soul quickens head, feet, and heart,
As streams like veins, run through th'earth's every part,
Visit all Countries, and have slily made
Gorgeous %1France%2, ruin'd, ragged, and decay'd;
%1Scotland%2, which knew no State, proud in one day:
And mangled seventeen-headed %1Belgia%2:
Or were it such gold as that wherewithall
Almighty %1Chimiques%2 from each Mineral,
Having by subtle fire a soul out-pull'd;
Are dirtily and desperately gull'd:
I would not spit to quench the fire they'are in,
For, they are guilty of much hainous sin.
But shall my harmless angels perish? Shall
I lose my guard, my ease, my food, my all?
Much hope which they should nourish will be dead.
Much of my able youth, and lusty head
Will vanish, if thou Love let them alone,
For thou wilt love me less when they are gone,
And be content that some lowd squeaking Cryer
Well pleas'd with one lean thred-bare groat for hire, 
May like a devil roar through every street;
And gall the finders conscience, if they meet.
Or let me creep to some dread Conjurer,[~;(CtY)]
That with phantastique scenes fils full much paper:
Which hath divided heaven in tenements,
And with whores, theeves, and murderers stuft his rents
So full, that though he place them all in sin,
He leaves himself no room to enter in. [CW:But]
But if, when all his art and time is spent, [p.83]
He say 'twill ne'r be found; yet be content;
Receive from him the doom ungrudgingly,
Because he is the mouth of destiny.
Thou say'st (alas) the gold doth still remain,
Though it be chang'd and put into a chain,
So in the first faln Angels, resteth still
Wisdom and knowledge, but 'tis turn'd to ill:
As these should do good works: and should provide
Necessities, but now must nurse thy pride,
And they are still bad Angels: Mine are none:
For form gives being: and their form is gone:
Pity these Angels yet: their dignities
Pass Virtues, Powers, and Principalities.
But, thou art resolute: Thy will be done?
Yet with such anguish, as her only son
The Mother in the hungry grave doth lay,
Unto the fire these Martyrs I betray.
Good souls, (for you give life to every thing)
Good Angels (for good messages you bring)
Destin'd you might have been to such an one,
As would have lov'd and worship'd you alone:
One that would suffer hunger, nakedness,
Yea death, e're he would make your number less.
But I am guilty of your sad decay:
May your few-fellows longer with me stay.
But oh thou wretched finder whom I hate
So, that I almost pity thy estate,
Gold being the heaviest amongst metals all,
May my most heavy curse upon thee fall:
Here fetter'd, manacled, and hang'd in chains,
First may'st thou be; then chain'd to hellish pains:
Or be with foraign gold brib'd to betray
Thy Country, and fail both of it and pay. [CW:May]
May the next thing thou stoop'st to reach, contain [p.84]
Poyson, whose nimble fume rot thy moist brain:
Or libels, or some interdicted thing,
Which negligently kept, thy ruine bring.
Lust-bred diseases rot thee; and dwell with thee
Itching desire, and no abilitie.
May all the evills that gold ever wrought;
All mischief that all devils ever thought:
Want after plenty: poor and gouty age:
The plague of travailers: love and marriage
Afflict thee; and that thy lives last moment,
May thy swoln sins themselves to thee present.
But I forgive: repent thou honest man:
Gold is restorative, restore it than:
But if that from it thou beest loath to part,
Because 'tis cordial, would 'twere at thy heart.
[om]
%1Ll. 65 69 79 91 111 ind 2 sp; l.59 ends w/a comma in MH[TJS\o\3-96]
L mf., but the CtY mf. has what looks like a semicolon; spacing, especially 
apostrophes, really is a judgment call%2 
           
