 Not that in colour it was like thy Hayre
 For Armeletts of that, thou mayst lett mee weare,
 Nor that thy hand it oft embrac'd, and kiste,
 For so it had the good, which oft I miste.
 Nor for that seely old Moralitie,
 That as those linckes are tyed, our loves should bee,
 Mourne I, that I thy seauen=fold chayne haue lost
 Nor for the lucksake, but the bitter cost.
 Oh shall xii righteous Angells, which as yett
 Noe leauen of vile solder did admitte,
 Nor yett by any falt haue strayd, or gone
 From the first state of theyre Creation;
 Angells which Heauen commanded to provide 
 All thinges to mee, and be my Faythfull guide;
 To gaine new friends, to appease greate enimyes,
 To comfort my soule, when I lye or rise.
 Shall these xii Innocents by thy seueare
 Sentence (Dread Iudg) my sins greate burden beare?
 Shall they be Damn'd, and in the furnace throwne?
 An punnished For Offences not theyre owne?
 They saue not mee, they doe not ease my paynes
 When in that Hell they are burnt, and tyed in chaynes.
 Weare they but Crounes of France, I cared not,
 For most of them theyre naturall country rott
 I thincke possesseth, they come here to vs,
 Soe leane, soe pale, soe%Ypale%Z lame, soe ruinous.
 And howsoere French Kings most Christian bee,
 Theyre Crownes are Circumcis'd most Iewishlye.
 Or weare they 2 stamps, spanish, still trauayling,
 That are become as Catholique as theyre King, 
 Those vnlick'd Beare whelpes, vnfild Pistoletts,
 That more then Cannon shott avayles, or letts,
 Which negligently left vnrounded, looke
 Like many angled figures in the booke
 Of some greate coniurer; which would enforce
 Nature, as these doe Iustice, from her course.| [CW:om]
 Which as the soule quickens head, feete, and hart [95r]
 As streames, like veines runns through th'Earths everie Part.
 Visitt all Countryes, and haue slily made,
 Gorgeous France ruind, ragged, and decayde,
 Scotland which knew no state, Proud in one day,
 And mangled seauenteene=headed Belgia.
 Or weare it such gold, as that wherwithall
 Almightye Chemikes from each minerall,
 Haueing by subtle fyre a soule out puld,
 Are durtily, & desperatelye guld.
 I would not spitt to quench the fire, they weare in.
 For they are guilty of much haynous sin.
 But shall my harmelesse Angells perish? shall
 I looke my guard, my Ease, my foode, my All?
 Much hope, which they should nourish, wilbe deade
 Much of my Able youth, and lusty head
 Will vanish; If thou love, lett them alone,
 For thou wilt love lesse, when they are gone.
 Oh be content, that some lovd squeaking Cryer,
 Well pleas%Ye%Z>'<d with one leane thred-bare grote for hyre;
 May like a Devill rore through everye streete,
 And gall the finders Conscience, if they meete.
 Or let me creepe to some deade Coniurer
 Which with Fantastique scheames fullfills much paper,
 Which hath devided Heauen in Fenements,
 And with whores, theeues, & Murtherers stuft her rents,
 So full, that, though he passe them all in sin,
 He leaues himselfe no roome to enter in.
 And if when all his Art, and Tyme is spent,
 He say, 'twill nere be found, Oh be content.
 Receaue->>Receiue< from him the doome vngrudginglye,
 Because he is the mouth of Destinye.
 Thou sayst, Alas the Gold doth still remayne
 Though it bee chang'd, & put into a chayne.
 So in the first falne Angells resteth still,
 Wisedome, and Knowledge, but 'tis turn'd to ill.
 As these should doe good workes, and should provide
 Necessityes, but nowe must nurse thy Pride.
 And they are still bad Angells, mine are none,
 For forme giues beeing, and theyre forme ys gone.
 Pitty these Angells, yet theyre dignityes
 Passe Virtues, Powers, and Principalityes.
 But thou art resolute; Thy wilbe done,
 Yett with such anguish as her onely sonne, [CW:om]
 The Mother in the Hungry Graue doth lay, [95v]
 Vnto the fire these Martyres I betraye
 Good soules, for you giue life to everye thinge
 Good Angells, for good Messages you bringe
 Destin'd you might haue bin to such a One,
 As would haue lov'd, and worshipt you alone.
 One which would suffer hungar, nakednesse,
 Yea death, ere he would make your Number lesse.
 But I am guilty of your sad decay.
 May your few fellowes longer with me stay.
 But oh thou wretched finder, whom I hate
 So much, that I almost pittye thy state.
 Gold being the heauyest mettall amongst all,
 May my most heauye Curse vpon thee fall;
 Here fetterd, manacl'd, and hang'd in chaynes
 First mayst thou bee, then chayn'd in hellish paynes
 Or bee with Forraine gold, brib'd to betraye
 Thy Country, and fayle both of that, and thy pay.
 May the next thinge; thou stoopst to reach, contayne
 Poyson, whose nimble fume rott the moyst brayne.
 Or libells, or some interdicted thinge
 Which negligentlye kept, thy ruine bringe.
 Lust breed diseases rott Thee, and dwell with thee
 Itchye desire, And no Abilitee.
 May all the hurt, which ever Gold hath wrought,
 All mischiefes, which all Devills ever thought.
 Want after plentye; Poore & Gowty Age;
 The Plagues of Trauillers, love, & Mariage,
 Afflict thee, and at thy lifes latest moment,
 May thy swolne sinnes themselues to thee present.
 But I forgive; Repent then honest man.
 Gold is restoratiue: Restore it than
 Or yf with it, thou beest loth to depart,
 Because 'tis Cordyall, would 'twere at thy hart.
 [om]
