Not that in colour it seemd like thy haire.
For Armletts of that thou maist lett mee weare;
Nor that thy hand it oft embract, and kist,
For soe it had that good which oft I mist.
Nor for that sylly old Moralitie
That as those links are tide, or loues should bee
Mourne I, that I thy seauen fold chaine haue lost,
Nor for the lucks sake, but the bitter cost.
Oh shall twelue righteous Angells which as yett,
No leuen of vile Soder did admitt,
Nor yet by any fault haue straid, or gone
From the first state of their creation
Angells which heauen commanded to prouide,
All things to mee, and bee my faythfull guide;
To gaine new friends to appease great Enimies
To comfort my Soule, when I lie or rise
Shall thes twelue Innocents by thy severe
Sentence (dread Iudge) my sins great burthen beare
Shall they bee damd, and in the furnace throwne,
And punished for offences not their owne?
They saue not mee they doe not ease my paines
When in that hell they are burnt, and tied in chaines
Were they but crownes of France I cared not
For most of them their naturall country rot
I thinke possesseth; they come heere to vs
So leane, so pale, so lame, so ruinous:
And howsoere French kyngs most Christian bee [CW: their]
Their crownes are circumcisd most Iewishlye. [p. 33
Or were they Spanish stamps still trauellinge
That are become as Catholique as their kinge,
Those vnlickt beare=whelps, vnfilld Pistoletts
That more then Cannon shott availes or lets,
Which negligently lest->>left< vnrounded, looke
Like many angled figures in the booke
Of some great Coniurer, which would inforce
Nature, as thes doe iustice, from her course;
Which as the Soule quickens head, feete, and hart.
As streames like veins rvns through the Earths every part
Visit all countries, and haue slily made
Gorgious France ruind, ragged, and decaid;
Countries which knew no state proud in one daie
And mangled seaventeene headed Belgia:
Or were it such gold as that, wherewithall,
Almightie Chimicks from each minerall
Havinge by subtile fire a Soule out-puld
Are durtilye, and desperately guld;
I would not Spitt to quench the fire they were in
For they are guiltie of much hainous Sine.
But shall my harmless Angells perish? shall
I loose my guard, my ease, my foode, my all?
Much hope which they should nowrish will bee dead
Mvch of my able youth, and lustie=head
Will vamsh->>vanish<; if thou loue let them alone
For thou wilt loue mee less when they are gone,
Oh bee content that some lowd squeaking Crier
Well pleasd with one leane thredbare groat for hire
May like a Deuill rore through euery streete,
And gall the finders concience if they meete: [CW: Or]
Or let mee creepe to some dead Coniurer, [p. 39
Which with fantastique Scheames fulfills much paper
Which hath deuided heauen in Tenements,
And with whores, theeues, and mvrtherers stuff their rents
Soe full, that though hee passe them all in Sin,
Hee leaues himselfe noe roome to enter in.
And if when all his art, and time is spent,
Hee say twill nere bee found, oh bee content.
Receaue from him the doome vngrudgingly,
By cause hee is the mouth of Destinye.
Thou saiest alas the gold doth still remaine 
Though it bee changd, and put into a chaine;
Soe in the first falne Angells resteth still
Wisdome and knowledge, but tis turnd to ill.
As thes should doe good workes, and should prouide
Necessities, but now mvst nvrse thy Pride;
And they are still bad Angells, myne are none;
For forme giues beinge and their forme is gone
Pittie thes Angells, yet their dignities
Passe vertues, powers, and principalities
But thou art resolute; thy will bee done
Yet with such anguish, as her only sonne
The Mother in the hungrie graue doth laie
Vnto the fire those Martyres I betraie.
Good Soules, for yow giue life to euery thinge;
Good Angells, for good messages yow bringe,
Destind yow might haue been to such a one
As would haue loud, and worshipt yow alone
One which would suffer hvnger, nakednesse,
Yea death ere hee woulde make yow nvmberlesse.
But I am guiltie of your sad decaie
May your few fellowes longer with mee staie
But oh thou wretched finder, whome I hate [p. 35
Soe mvch that I allmoste pittie thy State,
Gould beinge the heauiest mettall amongst all,
May my most heauie curse vppon thee fall.
Here fetterd Manacled, and hangd in chaines
First maiest thou bee, then chaind in hellish paines,
Or bee with forraine gold, bribd to betraie
Thy Countrie, and faile, both, of that, and thy paie
May the next thinge thou stoopst to reach, containe
Poyson, whose nimble fume rot thy moyst braine.
Or libells, or some interdicted thinge,
Which negligently kept, thy ruine bringe.
Lust=bred diseases rott thee, and dwell with thee
Itchy desire and noe abilitie.
May all the hurt which ever gold hath wrought,
All mischeifes which all deuills ever thought,
Want after plentie, poore, and gowtie age,
The plaugues of trauellours, loue, and mariage
Afflict thee; And at thy lifes latest moment,
May thy swolne Sins them selues to thee present;
But I forgiue. Repent then honest man;
Gould is restoratiue restore it than;
Or if with it thou beest loath to depart
Becawse tis cordiall, would twere at thy hart.|.
008.WN1.0SSom
