N%+Ot that in colour it was like thy haire,
For Armelets of that thou maist let me weare:
Nor that thy hand it oft embrac'd and kist,
For so it had that good, which oft I mist:
Nor for that silly old morality,
That as these linkes were knit, our love should be:
Mourne I that I thy seavenfold chaine have lost:
Nor for the luck sake; but the bitter cost.
O, shall twelve righteous Angels, which as yet
No leaven of vile soder did admit:
Nor yet by any way have straid or gone
From the first state of their Creation:
Angels, which heaven commanded to provide
All things to me, and be my faithfull guide:
To gaine new friends, t'appease great enemies:
To comfort my soule, when I lie or rise.
Shall these twelve innocents, by thy severe
Sentence (dread Iudge) my sins great burden beare?
Shall they be damn'd, and in the furnace thrown, [CW:And]
And punisht for offences not their own? [p.86]
They save not me, they doe not ease my paines,
When in that hell they'are burnt & tyed in chains:
Were they but Crownes of France, I cared not,
For, most of these, their Countreys naturall rot
I thinke possesseth, they come here to us,
So pale, so lame, so leane, so ruinous.
And howsoe'r French Kings most Christian be,
Their Crownes are circumcis'd most Jewishly; 
Or were they Spanish Stamps, still travelling,
That are become as Catholique as their King,
Those unlickt beare-whelps, unfil'd pistolets
That (more than Cannon shot) availes or lets; 
Which negligently left unrounded, looke
Like many angled figures in the booke
Of some great Conjurer that would enforce
Nature, as these doe justice, from her course.
Which, as the soule quickens head, feet, and heart,
As streames like veines, run through th'earth's every /(part,
Visit all Countries, and have slily made
Gorgeous %1France%2, ruin'd: ragged and decay'd,
%1Scotland%2, which knew no State, proud in one day:
And mangled seventeen-headed %1Belgia%2:
Or were it such gold as that wherewithall
Almighty %1Chymiques%2 from each minerall,
Having by subtle fire a soule out-pull'd; 
Are dirtily and desperately gull'd:
I would not spit to quench the fire they'are in,
For, they are guilty of much hainous Sin.
But, shall my harmlesse angels perish? Shall
I lose my guard, my ease, my food, my all?
Much hope which they should nourish will be dead. [CW:Much]
Much of my able youth, and lusty head [p.87]
Will vanish, if thou Love let them alone,
For thou wilt love me lesse when they are gone,
And be content that some lowd squeaking Cryer
Well pleas'd with one leane thred-bare groat, for /(hire, 
May like a devill roare through every street; 
And gall the finders conscience, if he meet.
Or let me creep to some dread Conjurer,
That with phantastique scenes fils full much paper:
Which hath divided heaven in tenements,
And with whores, theeves, and murderers stuft his /(rents
So full, that though he passe them all in sin,
He leaves himselfe no roome to enter in.
But if, when all his art and time is spent,
He say 'twill ne'r be found; yet be content; 
Receive from him that doome ungrudgingly,
Because he is the mouth of destiny.
Thou say'st (alas) the gold doth still remaine,
Though it be chang'd and put into a chaine,
So in the first falne angels, resteth still
Wisdome and knowledge: but 'tis turn'd to ill:
As these should do good works: and should provide
Necessities: but now must nurse thy pride,
And they are still bad angels: Mine are none:
For forme gives being: and their forme is gone:
Pity these Angels yet: their dignities
Passe Vertues, Powers, and Principalities.
But, thou art resolute: Thy will be done:
Yet with such anguish, as her onely sonne
The Mother in the hungry grave doth lay,
Vnto the fire these Martyrs I betray.
Good soules, (for you give life to every thing) [CW:Good]
Good Angels, (for good messages you bring) [p.88]
Destin'd you might have been to such an one,
As would have lov'd and worship'd you alone:
One that would suffer hunger, nakednesse,
Yea death, ere he would make your number lesse.
But I am guilty of your sad decay:
May your few-fellowes longer with me stay.
But o%C thou wretched finder whom I hate
So, that I almost pity thy estate,
Gold being the heaviest metall amongst all:
May my most heavy curse upon thee fall:
Here fetter'd, manacled, and hang'd in chains,
First mayst thou be; then chaind to hellish paines:
Or be with forraine gold brib'd to betray
Thy Countrey, and faile both of it and thy pay.
May the next thing thou stoop'st to reach, containe
Poyson, whose nimble fume rot thy moist braine:[colon(MH)]
Or libels, or some interdicted thing,
Which negligently kept, thy ruine bring.
Lust-bred diseases rot thee: and dwell with thee
Itching desire, and no abilitie.
May all the evils that gold ever wrought; 
All mischiefe that all devils ever thought:
Want after plenty: poore and gouty age:
The plagues of travellers: love: marriage
Afflict thee, and at thy lives last moment,
May thy swolne sinnes themselves to thee present:
But, I forgive: repent thee honest man:
Gold is Restorative, restore it than:
But if from it thou beest loath to depart,
Because 'tis cordiall, would 'twere at thy heart. [CW:ELEG.]
[om]
%1Ll. 65 69 79 91 111 ind 2 sp; colon in l.100 may also be in 
but it's in the shadow of the binding; spacing, especially around 
really is a judgment call%2
