 Kind pitty chokes my spleane, braue scorne forbids
 these teares to yssue, w%5ch%6 swell my ey-lids.
 I must not laugh, nor weepe sinnes, and be wise,
 May railing then cure these worne Maladies? 
 Is not our Mistres faire Relligion
 as worthy of all our soules Devotion
 as vertue was in the soules first age?
 Are not heav'ns ioyes as valiant to asswage
 Lusts, as Earths honour was to them? alas
 as we do them in meanes, shall they surpasse
 Vs in the end? and shall thy ffathers spiritt
 meete blinde philosophers in heav'n whose meritt
 of straight life may be imputed fayth? and heare
 thee whome he taught wayes easy and neere
 to followe, damnd'? O yf thou dare, feare this
 this feare great courage, and high valour is.
 Dar'st thou ayde mutinous Dutch, dar'st thou lay
 thee in ships woodden Sepulchers, a pray
 to leaders rage, to stormes to shott, to Dea>%V%5r%6<th,
 Dar'st thou diue Seas and dungeons of the earth,
 Hast thou courageous side, to thawe the yce
 of frozen North discoueries, and thrice
 colder then Salamanders? like Devine
 Children in the Ouen, fyers of Spaine and the Line,
 whose Countreyes to our bodies Limbecks be,
 Canst thou for gaine beare? and must euery he
 w%5ch%6 cryes not Goddesse to thy Mistres, drawe,
 or eate thy poysonous words? Courage of strawe,
 O%C desperate Coward: Wilt thou seeme bold, and
 to thy foes and his, who made thee to stand
 Souldier in this worlds garrison, thus yeild,
 and for forbid warres leaue th'appointed feild?
 knowe thy foes: the foule Deuill whome thou
 then seemst to please, for hate not loue would allowe [p.260]
 thee faine his whole Realme to be ridd; and as
 the worlds all parts wither away, and passe 
 to the worlds selfe, thy other lou'd foe is 
 In her decrepid wayne; thou lovinge this
 dost loue a withered and worne strumpett; last,
 Flesh (it selfes Death) and ioyes w%5ch%6 flesh can taste,
 thou lou'st, and thy faire goodly Soule, w%5ch%6 doth
 giue this flesh power to taste ioy, thou dost loath.
 Seeke Relligion. O%C where? Myrius
 thinkinge her vn-housd' heere and fled from vs,
 seekes her at Rome, there because he doth knowe
 that shee was [om] a thousand yeares agoe: 
 He loues her raggs, heere as we obey
 the State-cloth, where the Prince sate yesterday.
 Morus to such braue loues will not b'inthrald',
 but loues her only who at Geneua is calld'
 Relligion: plaine, simple, sullen, young,
 Contemptuous, and vn-hansome; as among
 Letcherous humors there is one who iudges
 no wenches holesome, but course-countrey drudges.
 Graius stayes still at home heere, and because
 Some Preachers vile, ambitious, bawdes and Lawes
 still newe like fashions, bidd him thinke that shee
 w%5ch%6 dwells with vs is only perfect, he
 embraceth her whome his God-ffathers will
 tender to him, beinge tender, as wards still
 take such wiues as their Gardians offer, or
 pay values. Carelesse Phrygius doth abhorre
 all, because all cannot be good, as one
 knowinge some women whores, %Jwill%K[Mvar:>%Jdoth%K<] marry none.
 Gracchus loues all as one, and thinks that Soe
 as women do in diuers Countreyes goe
 In diuers habits, yet are still one kinde,
 Soe doth he. Soe his Relligion, and this blind- 
 nes too much Light breedes. But thou
 of force must one, and forc'st,[sic] but one allowe
 and the right. Aske thy ffather w%5ch%6 is shee,
 Let him aske his. Though Truth and Falshood be
 neere Twinnes, yet Truth a litle elder is.
 Be busy to seeke her; beleiue me this
 Hee's not of none, nor worst, w%5ch%6 seekes the best. 
 To adore, or scorne an Image, or Protest
 may well be bad: doubt wisely: In strange way
 to stand enquiringe right, is not to stray,
 To sleepe or runne wrong, is. on a high hill,
 ragged and steepe, Truth dwelles, and he that will
 reach it, must about and about goe,
 and what the Hills suddennes resists, winne Soe;
 yet striue Soe that before Age, Deaths twilight
 Thy mind rest; for none can worke in that night.
 To will, implyes delay, therefore nowe doe:
 Hard deeds the bodies paines, hard knowledge too
 the mindes endeavours reach; and Mysteries
 Are as the Sunne, dazlinge, yet plaine to all eyes.
 Keepe the Truth w%5ch%6 thou hast found, men do not stand
 In soe ill case heere, that God hath with his hand
 Sign'd Kings blanke-Charters to kill all they hate,
 Nor are they vicars, but Hangmen to ffate.
 ffoole and wretch; wilt thou let thy soule be tied
 to mens Lawes, by w%5ch%6 it shall not be tried
 at the last day? oh, will it then serue thee
 to say, a Phillip, or a Gregory,
 a Harry, or a Martyn taught me, this?
 Is not this excuse for meere Contraries
 Equally strong? Cannot both sides say soe?
 That thou may'st rightly obay Power, her boundes knowe.
                                                            
                                                            
 As streames are, power is: those blest flowers w%5ch%6 dwell
 at the rough streames calme head, thriue and proue well:
 But hauing lost theire rootes, and themselues giuen         
 to the streames tyrannous rage, alas are driuen            
 through Milles, and Rockes, and Woodes, and at last almost    
 consum'de in goinge, are in the Sea lost;                   
 So perish soules, w%5ch%6 more chuse mens vniust           
 Power (from God claymd') then God himselfe to trust.|       
