Kind Pitty choakes my spleene; Braue skorne forbids
These teares to issue, which swell my Eye lidds.
I must not laugh, nor weepe; sin and be wise,
May rayling then cure these worne Malladyes
Is not our M%5rs%6 fayre religion
As worthye of all our soules Devotion,
As virtue was to the first blinde Age? 
Are not Heauens Ioyes as valiant to asswage
Lusts, as Earthes honors weare to them? Alas
As we doe them in meanes, shall they surpasse
Vs in the End? And shall thy fathers spiritt
Meete blynde Phylosophers in heauen whose merritt
Of strict life may be imputed faith and heare
Thee whom he taught wayes easye and neere
To follow damn'd?  Oh, if thou darst feare this,
This feare greate Courage, and high valor is;
Darst thou ayde mutiners Dutch? Darst thov lay
Thee in ships, wodden Sepulchers, a pray
To leaders rage, to stormes, to shott, to Dearth?
Darst thou diue seas, and dangers of the Earth?
Darst thou Coragious fire to thawe the Ice
Of frozen Northes discoveries; and thrice
Colder then Salamanders, like devine
Children in the Oven, fyres of [lc]spayne, & the lyne,
Whose Countreyes Lymbecks to ovr Bodyes bee,
Canst thou for gaine beare? And must every Hee
Which cryes not Goddesse to thy M%5rs%6 drawe 
Or eate thy poysonous wordes? Courage of strawe,
Oh Desperate Coward, wilt thou seeme bold, and [f.91]
To thy foes, and his who made thee, to stand
Souldier in his worlds garrison, thus yeilde
And for forbidden warrs, leaue th'appoynted fielde?
Know thy foes; The foule Devill whom thou
Striust to please, for hate, not love would allowe
Thee fayne his whole realme to be ridde, and as
The worlds all Partes wither away, and pas
So the worlds selfe, thy other lov'd foe, ys
In her decrepitt vaine; and thou loving this
Dost love a wither'd and worne strumpett; last
003.B32.040om
Thou lov'st; and thy fayre goodlye sowle, which doth
Give this flesh Powre, to tast ioye, thou dost lothe.
Seeke true Religion; Oh where? Mirius
Thincking her vnhous'd here, and fled from vs,
Seekes her at Rome; There, because he doth knowe
That she was there a thousand yeare agoe,
He loves her raggs so, as wee here obay
The state cloth, where the Prince satt yesterday.
Grant to such braue loves will not be inthralld,
But loves her only, who at Geneva is cald
Religion, playne, symple, sullen, young,
Contemptuous yett vnhandsome; As amonge
Letcherous humors there is one, which iudges
Noe wenches wholesome, but course Cuntry drudges.
Grugus stayes still at home here, and because
Some Preachers, vile ambitious bauds, and lawes
Still new, like fashions, bid him thincke, that shee,
Which dwells with vs, is only Perfect, hee
Imbraceth her, whom his Godfathers will
Tender to him, being tender; As wardes still
Take such wiues, as theyr Guardians offer, or
Pay values. Carelesse Phrigius doth abhorre
All, because all cannot be good; as One
Knowing some woemen whores, dares mary none.
Grattus loves all as one, and thinckes soe
As woemen doe in div[%1damaged%2]s Countreys goe
In divers habitts, yett are still One kynde,
So doth, so is religion, and this blynd=
nes, to much lights breedes, but vnmoued thou
Of force must One, and forc'd but One allowe;
And the right, aske thy father, which is shee;
Lett hym aske hys, Though truth, and falshood bee
Neare twinnes, yett Truth a little Elder is.
Be busye to seeke her; beleeve me this
He is not of none, nor worst, which seekes the best. [f.91v]
To adore or skorne an Image, or protest,
May all be bad; doubt wiselye: in strange way
To stand inquiring right, is not to stay.
To sleepe or run wronge, is on a high hill
Ragged and steepe truth dwells, and he that will
Reach it, about must, and about goe 
And what the hills sodennes resists win soe.
[lc]yet striue so, that before Age (Deaths twilight)
Thy mynde rest; for none can worke in the night.
To will, implyes delay, therefore nowe doe.
Hard deedes the bodye paines, hard knowledge to
The mindes indeauours reach; And Misteryes
Ar as the sunne, dareling, yett plaine to all eyes.
Keepe the Truith that thou hast found men doe not stand
In so ill Case here, that God hath with his hand
Sign'd Kings blancke charters, to kill whom they hate
Nor are the vicars, but hangmen to Fate.
Foole and wretch wilt thou lett thy sovle bee tyde
To mens lawes, by which shee shall not be try>%Ve<d[sic]
At the last day? Oh will it then serve thee
To say a Phillip, or a Gregorye
A Harry, or a Martin taught thee this?
Is not this Excuse for meere Contraryes
Equally true?  Cannot both sides say soe?
That thou mayst rightly obay Power, her boundes knowe.
These past, her Nature, and name is chang'd, to bee
Then, humble to her, is Idolatrye.
As streames are Powre is: Those blest flowres which dwell 
At the rough streames calme head thriue, and proue well.
But haueing left theyre rootes, and themselues giuen
To the streames Tirannous rage, Alas are driven
Through Mills, Rockes, and Woodes, and at last almost
Consum'd in goeinge, in the seas are lost.
So Perish sovles, which more chuse mens vniust
Powre, from God clam'd, then God hymselfe to trust.
